.TH SCAM 1 "July 26, 2018"
.DD July 26, 2018

.SH NAME
scam - Scam interpreter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scam\c
 [\c
.B -bv\c
] [\c
.I file\c
\&...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Scam
is an interpreter for a toy functional programming language that resembles a
subset of Scheme.
.B Scam
programs are written in a parenthesized prefix notation.
They can perform computations with lists, names (like Scheme's symbols),
numbers (32-bit two's complement integers), and strings.
Variables are lexically scoped, and function applications are properly tail
recursive.

.PP
.B Scam
was written primarily as a test of the garbage collector, signal handler, and
Unicode character I/O of the programming language
.B Orson.
However, the author has also used
.B scam
as a scripting language for making complex text files, like the HTML files that
are used in web pages.

.PP
.B
Scam
reads and writes 31-bit characters, encoded in UTF-8.
A Scam file may contain any characters that are not control characters,
except that any line may be terminated by a linefeed (U+000A), by a return
(U+000D), by a linefeed and a return, or by a return and a linefeed.
Tabs (U+0009) are not allowed.
You can write Scam programs in the familiar 7-bit ASCII or the Unicode
character sets.

.PP
By default,
.B scam
evaluates zero or more files named on the command line.
Each file must have the suffix
.B .scam\c
\&.
After all files have been evaluated,
.B scam
enters an interactive interpreter.
The interpreter prompts for an expression with "Q:".
When the user enters an expression on stdin,
.B scam
evaluates it and writes the result to stdout, prefixed by "A:".
The interpreter continues in this way, reading expressions and evaluating them,
until the user calls the function
.B quit
or types control-D.
Control-C interrupts evaluation and passes control to the interactive
interpreter.

.PP
.B Scam
recognizes the following options.
If an option doesn't appear on the command line, then the option's default
takes effect.

.TP
.B -b
Batch.
Don't enter the interactive interpreter after files named on the command line
have been evaluated.
The default is to enter the interpreter.

.TP
.B -v
Version.
Print
.B scam\c
\&'s version number and other identifying information on stdout.
The default is to print no version information.

.SH COPYING
Copyright (C) 2018 James B. Moen.
Permission is granted to copy, distribute, and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license may be obtained at <http://fsf.org/>.

.SH VERSION
Version 0.5.

.SH REFERENCES
James B. Moen.
"The Scam Manual."
Unpublished technical report.
2016.

James B. Moen.
"Unrevised Report on the Algorithmic Language Orson."
Unpublished Technical Report.
2018.

Michael Sperber,
R. Kent Dybvig,
Matthew Flatt,
Anton van Stratten
(editors).
"Revised⁶ Report on the Algorithmic Language Scheme."
September 26, 2007.

.SH AUTHOR
James B. Moen

.SH SEE ALSO
.B ascii\c
(7),
.B orson\c
(1),
.B unicode\c
(7),
.B utf-8\c
(7).
